While at Hillary for America, I managed the design, development and public rollout of Troll Trump, a fundraising site that let
users create an automatic donation to Hillary's campaign each time Trump posted on Twitter. The site raised $250,000 in three weeks.

Who's the audience?

By October on the campaign, we'd spent nearly ten months optimizing our main donation flow. About 60% of visitors to the page (and about 75% of donations)
came from our email program, which blasted out compelling, moment-driven fundraising asks to our list of over 6 million. Online ads,
organic traffic, and search engine referrals also drove a solid amount of traffic our way. And bringing up the rear was traffic from social
media. Despite the overwhelming amount of election-related content posted online, few people were compelled to donate from links posted on Facebook or Twitter.

To a certain extent, this is intuitive. Although HFA's social audience was roughly 15 million, compared to an email list half that size, social followers
are more casual participants. The bar to follow Hillary Clinton on Twitter is a bit lower than agreeing to join an email list usually pitched as "I'm with her."
Still, by the home-stretch of the campaign our team was eager to dive in to every last potentially untapped group of donors.

What should we build?

The idea for this project came, fittingly, from Twitter. We saw a number of posts over several months along the lines of "Each time Tr*mp tweets about
$TOPIC, I'm going to donate to [ HFA | PP | other ]." But let's be real: that's a hard promise to follow through on. Given the size of the un-tapped social
audience and the side benefit of a nice media splash, we decided to investigate.

The concept was straightforward, but what would raise the emotional stakes
to make the donation compelling? And how could we build the experience to suit a tech-savvy social media audience?

First, we mocked up a prototype of the core concept in InVision. Our talented design duo of Victor Ng and Aaron Lewis quickly settled on a provocative orange,
and we solicited informal approval from campaign management. After a few rounds of user testing, we learned that potential users were
pretty concerned with the overall money they'd spend. (Trump's tweeting habits were already notorious.) We refined the mechanics of the flow to
make the optional daily donation cap a more prominent element, which anecdotally helped people get over their mental block. We also found that
users who were familiar with Twitter immediately grokked the concept, but users who didn't really get Twitter (read: our strong 60y/o+ donor demographic)
were generally a little confused by the presentation. To hedge, we slipped a few more explicit instructions in the landing page, but generally weren't
too concerned: we were developing the product for our social audience to begin with.

We designed the flow so that users set up their donation in the form of a "pledge." Users had to choose an amount to donate per tweet, and had the
option to customize the text of their pledge. After checkout, the customized pledge came back to the user as a shareable image, with the
hopes that users' sharing would get us a nice peer-to-peer traffic bump. More on this later.

Let's build it

Development from start to finish took just over eight days. The frontend was built with React and Nuclear JS in a Flux architecture. Our donor universe at
HFA included over million people with saved payment information, a lucrative target audience that converts at a much higher rate than other donors or new donors.
Because this audience converts at a higher rate than other users, we knew it was important to build both a first-time user flow AND a flow that let
people log in to their account and checkout quickly. React components helped us replicate UI elements across these two flows while
keeping the logic sound.

Once the user creates a pledge, we asked the user for a password. In order to charge over the course of several weeks, we needed to
tokenize their their payment information with Stripe and attach that token to a user account on hillaryclinton.com. This would also let the user
return to modify or cancel their pledge by logging in to their account, which was a non-negotiable feature.
Messaging for this feature was carefully tuned by our lawyers, who were on-guard after a minor story broke about
folks who couldn't cancel their recurring donations to Trump's campaign.

We spun up a database that tracked the user's ID, their pledge details, and the date they created their donation -- important for determining how much to actually
charge. We decided to process donations once per week for a few reasons: after charging a user, we need to send an email receipt for their donation
(both as a matter of good service and because our lawyers required us to). One email per week is way less bothersome that one per day.. and it's also fewer
opportunities to remember to cancel a pesky recurring donation. Also, we transacted our donations through Stripe, which charges a per-auth transaction fee in
addition to a low percentage. This makes it slightly more costly to process more charges.

Ship it, then wait to pounce

After squashing all the bugs, getting the app scaled in production, and after a million rounds of copy tweaks ("dangerous rhetoric" vs "unhinged rhetoric," it turns out,
is a distillation of a whole campaign shift from "danger," which can be read as power, to Trump's being "unfit," which is less reverent), we waited to launch. Our
stakeholders on the digital team wanted to push the site in response to the next particularly nasty tweet.

We found our moment, and over the course of several days posted about five tweets and a few FB posts about the new site. Our press team did a great job of getting the
story written up in a variety of publications: CNN Money, Mashable, GOOD, USNews, DailyDot, and CNet, to name a few.

How'd it do?

The site raised over $250,000 from its launch on October 20 through the election on November 8. Not chump change, but still pales in comparison to the email-driven
fundraising through our main donation flow. Still, our social channel had its best month ever in October, and we increased donations from Twitter by over 80%.
At the beginning of November, the campaign made up to $2,000 for a tweet from Donald.

Credit to: Victor Ng, Aaron Lewis, Nathan Kane, Vanessa Archambault, Cheston Lee, Matt Tucker, Horace Williams, Liz Zaretsky.
